Create new K8s getting started guides (#1360)
ngrok/ngrok-docs: docs/getting-started/kubernetes/crds.mdx

---
title: "Quickstart: Kubernetes Custom Resources"

> sidebar_label: Custom Resources

Reviewer: Could you add a description to these new pages for improved SEO performance? Thanks

pagination_next: k8s/guides/using-ingresses
---

import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import ConfigExample from "/src/components/ConfigExample.tsx";

import K8sSetup from "./_setup.mdx";
import K8sInstall from "./_install.mdx";

> This quickstart uses the [ngrok Kubernetes Operator](/docs/k8s) and a [ngrok's custom resources](/docs/k8s/crds) (CRs) to make the services you've deployed to Kubernetes available on the public internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This quickstart uses the [ngrok Kubernetes Operator](/docs/k8s) and [ngrok's custom resources](/docs/k8s/crds) (CRs) to make the services you've deployed to Kubernetes available on the public internet.
```

Use this method if you:

- Want the easiest path, requiring the least amount of YAML, to create ingress for your resources compared to [Ingress](/docs/getting-started/kubernetes/ingress) or [Gateway API](/docs/getting-started/kubernetes/gateway-api) resources.

> - Are okay with using Kubernetes-native resources, but not necessarily Kubernetes standards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Are okay with using Kubernetes-native resources, but not necessarily following Kubernetes standards.
```

I think it's missing this word, but I could be wrong.

You can choose between a static domain with an ngrok-branded TLD like `.ngrok.app` or `.ngrok.io`, or you can [bring a custom domain](/docs/universal-gateway/custom-domains/).

We'll refer to this as `$YOUR_DOMAIN` from here on out.

## 3. Create your endpoint manifest

You have two options to expose your Kubernetes service with ngrok's CRDs:

1. A single `AgentEndpoint` resource: This option is simplest, but is typically limited to exposing one service on a hostname.
2. A pair of `CloudEndpoint` and `AgentEndpoint` resources: This option allows you to route traffic to any number of Kubernetes services from a single hostname depending on their path, headers, and more using [expressions](/docs/traffic-policy/concepts/expressions/) and the [`forward-internal` Traffic Policy action](/docs/traffic-policy/actions/forward-internal).

This manifest exposes a Kubernetes Service named `hello-world` listening on port `80` on `$YOUR_DOMAIN`.
Change these three values according to your specific deployment.

<Tabs groupId="crds" queryString="crd-option">
  <TabItem value="agent-endpoint" label="AgentEndpoint" default>

> ```yaml title="ngrok-crds.yaml"

Author: Ack! But these are Kubernetes manifests and must be YAML.

apiVersion: ngrok.k8s.ngrok.com/v1alpha1
kind: AgentEndpoint
metadata:
  name: hello-world-endpoint
spec:
  url: https://$YOUR_DOMAIN
  upstream:
    url: http://hello-world.default:80
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="cloud-agent-endpoint" label="CloudEndpoint + AgentEndpoint">

```yaml title="ngrok-crds.yaml"
apiVersion: ngrok.k8s.ngrok.com/v1alpha1
kind: CloudEndpoint
metadata:
  name: hello-world-cloud-endpoint
spec:
  url: $YOUR_DOMAIN
trafficPolicy:
  policy:
    on_http_request:
      - actions:
        - type: forward-internal
          config:
            url: http://hello-world.internal
---
apiVersion: ngrok.k8s.ngrok.com/v1alpha1
kind: AgentEndpoint
metadata:
  name: hello-world-endpoint
spec:
  url: http://hello-world.internal
  upstream:
    url: http://hello-world.default:80
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Apply the manifest with `kubectl apply -f ngrok-crds.yaml`.

> The ngrok Kubernetes Operator watches your cluster for `AgentEndpoint` and `CloudEndpoint` resources you create and provisions a new agent endpoint to forward traffic into your Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ngrok Kubernetes Operator watches your cluster for `AgentEndpoint` and `CloudEndpoint` resources you create, and provisions a new agent endpoint to forward traffic into your Service.
```

You can now send a request to `$NGROK_DOMAIN` with your browser or `curl`.

> Your Kubernetes service is now available to anyone on the public internet!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Kubernetes service is now available to anyone on the public internet.
```
Minor thing, but I try to avoid exclamation points in the docs

## 4. Secure your app with Traffic Policy

> In cases where you need to restrict access to your API or app, ngrok's [Traffic Policy engine](/docs/traffic-policy) and the [`restrict-ips`](/docs/traffic-policy/actions/restrict-ips) let you quickly allow only certain addresses to access your endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In cases where you need to restrict access to your API or app, ngrok's [`restrict-ips`](/docs/traffic-policy/actions/restrict-ips) [Traffic Policy](/docs/traffic-policy) action lets you quickly allow only certain addresses to access your endpoint.
```

I _think_ we don't commonly refer to it as an engine in the docs. I think we generally refer to it as a common expression language. So I thought I'd cut reference to that as it might potentially confuse people.
